
##  18/10/2015

### Epictetus bath.
The passage where epitectus wrote about the decision to go to public baths despite its possibile inherent trouble resonated with me. I call this technique "goal adjunction". Your second goal is to keep a stoic mindset. I went to 2 places today, and thought a lot about the goal and the stoic goal. This worked. More specifically I managed to keep my ego in check in places where I tends to let him taking control.

### thinking place
One place I went was a public space of philosophical discussions. I did not intended to talk because I wanted to avoid ego stuff. But, strangely enough, it was about a subject very important for stoicism. So I talked a little bit on this subject. Each time I talked, I mentionned that I was not a specialist and many people here should now more. Maybe it's wrong and nobody knew stuff about stoicism. But, anyway, taking a naive position was very confortable. Another thing is that I took much time to listen to what people say and to ponder it before answering. I was more calm than usual. Not overly excited in the face to face relationship.

### stoicism today
One thing that struck me was how non-stoic was the approach of people on this subject. None of the guys involved brought up stoic ideas about losing things. Paradoxally, this may be the reason why stoicism get more adepts. When ones discover about stoicism, this is a mindshift in this modern way of thinking life. Maybe.

### early results, not completely confident though, getting ready to loose stoicism
On the contrary of the first days. I start to see results. I am more aware of the time I am consumming. I kept my ego in check at some times. My seven mental images I built gave me confidence. It's difficult to say if rehearsing these images have an effect, but building them, personalizing them was a pleasant step. It feels like I am making mine the precepts I find important. However, what if tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or even the incoming week I loose this sense of control ? Will I get this idea in the back of my head : "maybe I overrated stoicim", "I am stupid to think that it's enough to face life". In a word : decept. I do not count the cases in my life where I lost some habits or mindset I was building. Will it different this time ? I can't be sure. I could tell me a story of why this time it will be different. But it would ease my situation right now, and give me risk for the future. If I loose against myself, I would loose this sort of faith I am building. This may be more thougtful to accept that there will be a time when things won't go well. I must be ready to loose stoicism ideas themselves in order to behave according the reason if I encounter deception in my progress. This is a nice paradox, if i put my bound to stoicism in things that I can loose, I may improve the chances to keep (at least a part) of this mindset on the future.

### loosing stoicism, Honesty and diffusion of a message
Public figures on stoicism don't have the same amount of freedom as we, novice, have. They engaged many things in their filiation. They can't play the "naive position" about stoicism. We, novice, wait for them to be highly knowledgable about stoicism. They cannot really share their doubts about stoicism (maybe even to themselves). We do not expect from them to thinking aloud but to share what is the more convincing in stoicism. Their mission is not to share their most inner thoughts on the subject but helping more people by getting them him. They won't change radically for example leaving stoicism for another conception of existence because so much is in play. Maybe I am overdramatising the thing. I know this is one of the reason I am not confortable with our publishing culture in academia. I like honesty, I want to be able to share and discuss my most important doubts or sensible things about my work and the work of others. But this is not the game of academia. This can be done only in private circles. Or is it ? The path of public honesty must be very miserable, but this is something a stoic can stand if well trained. As his goal is his goal, not the side-bonuses of public appearance (wealth, fame). But on a practical point of view, the impact of such honest approaches has the risk to very low. I don't know. This everything to say that I see mental burdens in delivering thoughts. Honesty Versus Impact. 

## 19/10/2015

### unclear vizualisations (2) reference to a post for 11/10/2015
I am reading and editing my past writings. This is interesting. One edit became too large and took this current place. The mp3 was not dealing with negative vizualisation. But Epictetus helped a bit. Instead of mental projection, I tried simply to keep it mind that one day I might be without her. Vizualizing it...today I think it's too strong for me and just simple thoughts (instead of dire mental projections) seems to do a better job. One argument for more simple mental exercices is that if I have to vizualize everything I might lose is time consumming. Instead, burying into my mind that I do not possess anything but my stoic state of mind, that it's ok to get and lose something can be a better objective. At least these are my thoughts at the moment. What about this idea of "appreciating each moment with X as it was the last", I am starting to be doubtful. I doubt that it's an interesting goal to reach (too much rooter into a culture of intense feelings, positive or negative, wheras stoic propose a culture of tranquility) and that human psychology can hardly be bent towards this limit.

### Nietzsche and Nature
I dig a bit into Nietzsche critic of stoicism. I still like it. I think many thoughts of Nietzsche are conflicting with stoicism. Some, however, are directly inflicted to this school of thought. The passage in Beyong good/bad is very often cited. Indeed it's pretty aggressive. As it deals with this multi-facet idea (and maybe debated, I don't know) of living in accordance with the nature, the rebutal is easily found. But, I kind of adhere to a part of the Nietzsche critic. I read from Irvine that some stoics believed (or made people believe) that it could be proven that stoicism was the only path to a good life. I think this is targeted by Nietzsche. *Stoics put their dogma of the existence in what they call Nature, not deducing the former by the later*. This is a common mistake to avoid admitting that our conception of the world is not influenced (if not built upon) the conception of our own existence, or of our own body. Stoics created the idea of Nature the same way sects (succesful or not) build an idea of God sacralizing a whole package of rules and precepts. Once again, this deals with only part of the possible ideas of what is meant by Nature (and nature) in the context. I currently don't believe that Nature can dictate an objective way of life, nor our reasonning ability. Many approaches can be taken. Among them, the elevation against certain conception of the Nature, for example, the revolt against absurdity of existence. Nietzsche did not believe much in rules (and spit on sacralized ones). So do I. Maybe this idea would allow a stoic student to be more flexible in the construction of his own philosophy of life. Nature is dead. If I truly think that stoicism follows an unbreakable logic, then I am enslaved to it.
I wrote this passage without many nuances. This is maybe a Nietzchean trait, the guy was maybe more nuanced in his mind than in his writings. My thoughts are here exagerated, but there are some ideas that must be written without moderation to be light and well-formed. If I am totally wrong, I would fall from higher, I will possibly regret these strong words one day, who knows.

## 20/10/2015

### A stoic paradox ?
In investigating the idea of a Nieztschean stoicism, I stumbled upon this idea. Avoidance and building independance are two differents strategies to avoid being enslaved to things which are not goods. I guess avoiding a situation can be a strategy when our mindset is not strong enough. Stoics seems to use both. For example they avoid the company of non-philosophers or vile people. The reason is that wrong values can be contagious. If they built a strong mindset, it would be possible to enjoy compagny of these people. Also, but here I am less sure, one impression is that they don't like risk-taking. But as a Stoic is able to support the bad things related to risk (like money loss), they should be more risk taker than normal people. In other words, it's like to beef up and avoid fights in the same time. It's sad to beef up if we do not fight and sad to avoid fight if we are able to handle three men at once.

### Philosphy of life as a tool to formalize our relation with ourselves, others and the rest of the world
Stoics have pretty much the same answer for this three area. Acceptation is the master word ? 

## 21/10/2015

### Stoicism love. 
I read the chapter 5 of Robertson book. I don't understand many things :
- Why is it stoic to love everyone ?
- How a stoic can love (especially non-stoic people) ?
At the present time, I am not convinced. I tend to prefer building strong friendship than to feel a bound with the whole world. I feel more Nietzchean than stoic on this subject. Caring about everyone seems too heavy. Maybe in a sense of esthetic. Finding everyone appreciable seems wise to me. But caring about people as myself, this sounds crazy. I am glad to capture this thought as there are good chances that my mind changes on the relation between this kind of christian love and stoicism.

## 22/10/2015

### Nietzsche, Stoicism and Michael Ure. First contact.
The relation that Nietzsche have with stoicism seems complex. I am reading a paper of Michael Ure. "Nietzsche's Free Spirit Trilogy and Stoic Therapy". I like the writing style which goes straigth to the point. Power is conceived as the central theme that animates Nietzsche therapy and its relation with others. One passage amongst others that stroke me : 
>According to Nietzsche, all these interpretations are therapies that address the affective states the human animal experiences when it discovers that the external world is beyond its control. For Nietzsche emotions derive from and register our evaluation of our power to shape or control the external world; the negative affects (fear) register a perceived lack of power. He assumes that once the human animal recognizes that the external world is not within the scope of its control, it seeks or invents means by which it can reclaim a feeling of power. Nietzsche first introduces his (in)famous notion of power, then, not as a meta-physical belief, or as a normative principle, but as a psychological hypothesis for explaining the origins and development of those cultural forms human beings have created in order to endure vulnerability. 

I see the author has written a book and contributed to another on this subject. This has good chance to be on my reading list. 

### elogious portrait of epictetus...by Nietzsche.
Michael Ure reports the distinction between human and cosmic stoicism brought up by John Sellars. Interesting distinction btw. He writes that "human stoicism" fits exactly the portrait of Epictetus written by Nietzche. Strangely enough, The Dawn is not on wikisource. But some sources are available elsewhere (scans and text recognition) like here  https://archive.org/stream/cu31924021569177/cu31924021569177_djvu.txt The passage is 546, but OCR worked badly and turned the 5 in S so ctrl+F "S46" to get it. The portrait is ellogious. He depicts that Epictetus is free from god and believes in reason only which distinguishes radically from christianism. He his not an idealistic and has already found solid joy :
> Epictetus, on the other hand, neither hopes nor allows his best treasure to be given him — he possesses it already, holds it bravely in his hand, and defies the world to take it away from him

### Dawn Nietzsche
I never read Dawn. More specifically, I think it is with birth of tragedy the sole book I did not read from him. Good for me as it's the right time for me to read it. According to Michael Ure, it's written under the direct influence of epictetus. Indeed, the few passages refered by Michael Ure are an interesting mix between the Nietzsche I know and Stoicism. This is then an interesting read that awaits me. I shall continue to read Ure to see how and why the departure from stoicism has been made by Nietzsche. 

### Nietzsche failed to find an alternative to Stoicism
This is the claim of Michael Ure. After The Dawn Nietzsche wants to develop an alternative where passions and pain is valuable. According Ure, he failed to do so. By taking the stance of the amor fati and the eternal recurence of the same which is close to stoic concepts, he simply left his "human stoicism" for a "cosmic stoicism. This cosmic aspect, according Ure, do no allow more space for passion and pain. I am not sure to get exactly the argument why it is, but the main argument seems to be that Nietzsche did not provide any convincing one. Eternal return of the same leads to stoic apathea. I found this paper very convincing but it would be valuable to confront this hypothesis. 

### live in agreement with nature (fun)
As I understood, this idea has various aspects. But concerning emotionnal aspect everytime I read it I have a mental image at the back of my had. A small river in a green space. Am I alone ? While it does not really cover the complexity thoughts behind this expression, it has an emotionnal aspect sounding like "This rivers flow, Stay calm dude".

### Becker and "following nature"
Today Massimo posted an interesting highlight on Becker book. This is one amongst others. Becker reduce the "live in agreement with nature" with something close to "understanding and accept how nature works". The argument for this modern form is that ancient stoics did not have a better science than a teleological conception of nature. It sounds right to me, and if I am not wrong it was a popular conception at the time. But, in the same time, a teleogical conception go very well with a philosophy of acceptation. Maybe I am influenced (I could drop the maybe here) by my recent read, but the passage from human stoicism to cosmic stoicism makes sense. If one wants to accept past events and future, the best metaphysical support is one where things could not have been otherwise (and why not with a bonus : that there was a reason behind it).

## 23/10/2015

### metaphysics and stoicism
A discussion on reddit allowed me to be more clear with myself concerning my position about the "Nature". I posted something close from the last paragraphe "Becker and "following nature" and someone interrogated me with the problem of believing something just for the sake of relief. https://www.reddit.com/r/Stoicism/comments/3pssps/massimo_explains_how_a_new_stoicism_conceives/. My last comment revealed my Nietzschean affiliation I think. I should copy it in this diary to keep track of it.
> This is a worry I share. My real current belief is that the world is absurd. I don't think we can do much with this conception of the world. What follows is one way to think about that, from my most relativist self : The whole enterprise to find a way to live deduced by our place in the cosmos is to me a failed enterprise. What many people do, wether they admit to do it or not, is that they think the world to fit their state of mind, when it's not to manipulate other minds. I tend to prefer manipulate myself consciously than inconsciously. Metaphysics are just stories we build for ourselves, purely human abstractions as well as the concept of Truth. We are not the slave of these representations, but their masters. They should be designed in the same way we design a home.

This is clearly a half-comfortable proposition. But in the same time, it is in agreement with both my relativism and my appreciation of the stoic world representation concerning its practical benefits.

## negative vizualisation, a suggestion to make it easier. 
I am reading the 7th chapter of Donaldson book. This is interesting as he goes in great practical details for this activity, which I found lacking in Irvine book. He is uncomfortable with the term coined by Irvine "negative vizualisation", because an external event should, in Stoic perspective, be indifferent. To be fair, negative makes sense as it's just the opposite of the positive vizualisation mental activity. But, it's also true that words have strength. I think negative viz are complex to me because one should in the same time picture the event and picture a stoic state of mind. The cognitive load associated with it is high. I suggest that the stoic state of mind can be pictured indepently of external events. I mean, just with an abstract idea of a misfortune (not the misfortune itself, depicted in details) focusig on stoic precepts : 


Control
- This is not the event I suffer from but my judgement of the event, he only thing in my control is my state of mind
- The only thing in my control is my state of mind

Preparation
- I knew this could hapen and I prepared myself
- This gives me an occasion to train my stoic abilities

Distanciation Activities
- (in case of lost)"Never say about anything, I have lost it, but say I have restored it"
- Analysis and decomposition of the event in smaller part

Perspectives
- External are indifferents
- This is nothing in a cosmic perspective

Fate
- This could not have been otherwise
- There is no one to blame
- amor fati 

I believe that these precepts can be encapsulated and enhanced by mental imaging. Once this is mastered (which I do not for the moment), I think negative vizualisation can be done more easily, overiding this basic reflex I have which consist to find solutions to the state I picture in my mind, or solutions to avoid this state (and that not what negative viz are made for).

## a stoic perspective on burdens
burden ourselves, instead of clearing our mind and flow.

## 24/10/2014
### stoic dogma
When being a stoic is a full commitment to all its tenets, and full knowledge of the sources, then being a stoic does not worth more than being in a sect or in a religion. This is also a contradiction in the term. Stoics thought that the reason is the start for a good life. Following a dogma is the opposite of reason. The only allegiance a philosphe should have is its allegiance to his rationality. It seems that some "stoics" are reluctant to even think about some possible fork or free inspiration in stoicism. They act like in gregerous way, rejecting the guy who do not fit. Or, they can also male this sectarian retoric "if you want to propose variation or critic, you should fully study it before". Do they even realize how low passions are behind this way of thinking ? The goal of a student is to build its philosophy of life not kneeling before a new religion. 
Note : this is what we call in french "un billet d'humeur". I don't like myself when I am thinking with an axe, but I allow it as it makes me write things that I could not usually.  This is my Nietzschean side

## Passions
In [this reddit thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/Stoicism/comments/3pwg1s/why_you_should_follow_your_passion_and_not_seek/)a guy has been critized for his article suggesting that "you should follow your passion". Following our passion has been quite unpopular in the subreddit. Indeed it's not really a stoic tenet. Two main arguments has been given : (1)You should live to make the world a better place instead (2)Following a passion enslaves you to externals. The major counter argument was that following your passion can also be the right (or logical) path. I think this a very important debate. It's a very important one for me, giving that the relation to passions (and pain) was the major critic of Nietzsche. It seems to me that a passionated personn can help the world as he can become an expert, but I don't think the common interest is his goal. He can easily loose the ability to follow its passion, but it depends of his passion. Is it possible to follow a passion and be prepared to lose it ? This is clearly not an indifferent for the passionated, but I guess stoicism can help him to limit the loss. Moreover, following a passion can help you to free you from external, as you don't care. If truly passionated, you don't care about everything which is not related to this passion. About the #1 argument dealing with philanthripy, it seems to me a burden, if taken under the form of "I MUST". This must be a lighter "I WANT" or "I would prefer". I guess many people think that it's a necessary consequence of some stoicism axioms. I am personnaly not sure about how firmly this idea is tighten with other stoic ideas. But I still have to learn. You can't be sane and quiet if you think that you HAVE TO make the world a better place. People willing to fully dedicate themselves to the common good are rare.

## 25/10/2015

### Short Debrief
It's highly probable that starting from tomorrow, I will consacrate much less time to stoicism as I have a lot of work to do. I need to prepare this sudden lower stoic regime. I hope I will have time to properly participate in the stoic week. Then, it's the moment for me to sumarize my thoughts on my readings. I am fully convinced about many things in stoicism. I did not studied physics and logic but got into ethics which is quite highlighted by most of the modern writers (Irvine, Donaldson). I saw that this family is divided due to the metaphysical part (god,pantheim,thelologism etc...). Some people also stick on the necessity to learn and know logics and physics, other gently discard it, others think that ethics can't completely ignore "science" but as science as evolved, it's desirable to modernize stoicism. I feel that calling oneself a stoic is a trap. It attracts critics. To my Nietzchean side, it's like a renuncment of free thinking to declaring myself a stoic. The most important, as Irvine put it, is to build a philosophy of life. I think stoicism is an extraodinar toolkit to do that. But it seems that many people are very worried about cherry picking or discarding some thoughts of this school. They fear that doing this, you risk a lack of consistency. It seems to be a legitimate worry. But in the same time, it's also important (at least for me) to form our own consistency, not relying on a, maybe not that solid, external system. So, I hesitate about two tenets of stoicism "vertue is the sole good" and the elimination of passions. My thoughts on this subjects are still very muddy, but I would like to inspect how much passion elimination and vertue (or more conveniently the elimination of passion that does not participate the common good) are tied to rest of the stoic ideas. For the moment, I value freedom and passion and I am a Nietzschean atheist, so...it's complex. I found two books about Nietzsche ideas as therapeuties. As, in my readings, I discovered that Nietzsche had strong stoic roots which he rejected as strongly later, but this is how Nietzsche proceed (wagner, schopenhauer, science...). So, I should study these books once I have more digested stoicism. I am really eager to find a common ground where passion and freedom (eventually pain and craziness) have some place. But maybe it will just end up in a delusion. I like stoic mental exercices, and I am happy to built mine. I had some affinities with this kind of practice 4 years ago, so I am very glad to get back to this kind of exercices. I build my own mental images to encode stoic precepts, and I find the vizualisation very helpful. I am also glad to be able to use my experience in the use of the method of loci to do that. I see people keeping a table of citations, or index cards, but I would suggest that's superior to keep these ideas in our mind, encoded in emotionnal mental images and not in pure text. So, I don't know, according the outcomes of my chain of images, I think sharing this technique with the community (and possibly sharing my own chain of images) would be a important thing to do. One thing I should do, tonight, is to check if there are some others important ideas that are not in my images, from Donaldson book notably. When I have more time, I think I should read the inner Citadel from Pierre Hadot as well as Marcus Aurelius. I would also read the book about therapy and Nietzsche. I felt few results of my readings and my practice. I had a few situations where I react very properly. I also appreciated some moments. I am very attentive about what drives my actions and get warning when I had some emotions. I have avoided being upset. This is this moment by moment attentiveness that brought a lot I think. Now that my mind will be free from my 6H/day reading, I should be careful to keep this level of alertness at a convenable level. Morning and Evening exercices will have more importance than before. It will be very interesting to see how the two next weeks go.

### unrealistic expectations
When I read people statements like "all externals are indifferent to me" or referring to the injunction to make a world a better place I can't avoid to be skeptic about how these people live with it. If they do respect them perfectly or nearly perfectly, we have sages or nearly sages. If they don't they can suffer from unrealistic expectation. Following a Doctrine or a religion provoke shame provoked by their too high standards. However stoicism is (at least to me) a philosophy of life based on acceptation. There is a risk to negate this philosophy itself by having too high standards. If there are any readers there, and maybe to myself as a future reader of this diary, I should apologize for these snap and hard judgements. I do not enter into more thorough thinking, maybe by lazyness, maybe to write a fast note. This is just a note storing, not an analytical essay.

## 26/10/2015

### counter productive precepts
Which ones imply the others ? I feel that without having emptied my head or being in stoic-like state of mind, some precepts can be heard and respected. Explaining that electronic gadget, routinely mail checking must be avoided, limit music while working, avoid multi-tasking, or even vertue is the only good...I don't feel it can have any positive effect on someone in a auto-pilot state of mind. It just feels like a reprimand from mommy. A burden. Unrealistic expectation. You can agree on paper, but don't feel ready for such transformation. So you provided guilt and shame to this guy. Nietzche, here, would say, that's what christians naturally do. I don't know if it's true, what I know, on the other side, is that I would prefer to avoid this kind of wrestling, and interior conflict as I feel that it's an interesting value of stoic mindset. On the opposite, if some first precepts are understood, some transformation of the attention are starting to come into effect, now you have someone ready to listen and try these ideas. Once again. Acceptation is the key. If a discourse is received like a sum of injunctions that provoke an aversion, then it's counter productive. On the opposite, if steps are provided, the only thing to do is to understand and let your mind flow naturally within the path, with no feeling of conflict. At the origin of these thoughts (written fast as I work hard), the observation that, after my 2 weeks of stoicism and morning meditation, advices listen on painted porch was much more appreciated than the first time I listened it, maybe a week ago. Both was about something about tech overload and multi-tasking. That being said, the form of these advices interogates me. Instead "you should pick a day for tech-sabbat" why not saying something more internal "you may find appreciable a day without tech". Ok this is longer and maybe not that practical. But an internal form of precepts is maybe an interesting perspective for providing precepts. It could also take an humble first personn form. I chose to adopt this and this behavior. Or maybe this is the listener who have to make an effort to transform injunctions like as something more sweet, like replenish the toolkit of thoughts and exercices availables that I could naturally pick if one day I feel this is the moment.

### order of exercices
Inline with these thoughts, I felt that exercices should be ordered in an intelligent manner. THis morning the order was 1)breathing exercices to empty my mind 2)stoic mental images to set a stoic mindset 3)prepare the day as epictetus prepare the departure to public bath. This makes sense to me. Receptiveness+calm => General Stoic mind set => Contextualized stoic mindset.

### Nietzsche and ego
Finally I failed to stay keep aside stoicism today. I had an eye on the book of Michael Ure. I just read the first pages and this is amazing. It gives me another regard on Nietzche ideas, and also on stoicism. As Foucault and Hadot thought, the Author also thinks that Nietzsche truly believed in philosophy as an art of living. This is even more convincing than in the short paper I read. But what I discovered here is even more interesting. The idea of creation, self-mastery, self-cultivation, self-fashion, self... of Nietzsche could be based on the idea that the ego and narcism can't be shut down easily, so they must be transformed. This is based on the large amount of energy that Nietzsche put in self-analysis. Or something like that. I will understand more in the following pages. This is very interesting and made me rethink the zarathoustra in particular. If one takes as an axiom that (1)ego is not fundammentaly bad (2)ego can only be transformed, maybe it opens up the possibility for a more passionate stoicism, allowing the right of the individual to enjoy act of creations, full-commitement to (possibly) sterile passions. 

### my last anger
I personnally do not regret last time I was angered. It last few days. I was inspirated to fight against the current litterature in my academic field. Let's say that without this anger I would have not created anything, then my preference, currently, seems to favor anger. Now that the creation time is gone, I feel that this anger should be calmed, I don't see any practical problem to shut it down, particularly when stoic precepts and exercices start to be effective. On the other side, there are tons of emotionnal burst that I deeply regret. THis is not an apology of anger.

### Sketptical line related to ego, narcissism and Nietzsche
If we take for axiom that narcissism can't be shut down, only transformed, what can one say about stoicism ? Where the ego of the stoics is transformed, hidden but still present ? I would say in smugness, in reference to this smbc post http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?id=3836. This is a very easy pique towards stoicism, and also very speculative. But after all : Why not ? Even if it's true, is it a big problem ? Feeling invincible is quite a gold standard for ego. And if the poison fueled its one antidote, then it's fine. Stoicism can then be make more close than Nietzschen self-transformation thema, for example when Seneca says : "when will you stop to wait to demand the best of yourself". The image of the arena that can be found multiple times in Epictetus and Seneca, this is a very egotic one too. How many advices in stoicism, in proportions can be related to dealing with other people judgement ?
That's being said, I recall any wanderer, including my future self, that this is a poor diary. I don't wan't to be critized for being too harsh and not enough thoughtful. See ? I am protecting myself here again ! I don't care about my future self reading this, I know me enough to see what is a column and what is a more open ended discussion. But if I feel the urge to ask any reader to not judge me as an angry overconfident bastard, could it be related to my ego :) ? or maybe not ? who knows.

## 27/10/2015
### social medias
After inspection, social networks have a too big emotional charge to me. I loose my attention, get small up and high according to comments vote ups/down, like etc...And when social media inspection is over, it creates a void "where am I, what did I have to before that, sounds not really exciting". This social media inspection should be prepared like epictetus bath. Makes clear my goal, and respect a stoic state of mind.

### replace living according nature
This concept is really problematic for whoever want to put modern eyes on stoicism. Replacing it by living according truth, science, or our nature is not fully satisfactory. If I follow Ure and Sellars, human stoicism becomes cosmic stoicism when the individual is not longer opposed with an hostile environement, but find a place in a cosmic perspective, and then complete fortitude by a strong feeling of acceptation. I fear that replacing stoic conception of the world by a modern view undermine this story of acceptation. For example, Irvine and his proposal to re-root rationality in the context of evolutional psychology sounds a more modern story than the zeus story of epictetus, but it does not bring this feeling of having a comfortable place in this world. Our rationnality is not far from being a bug overriding animal instincts. 
Or is it ? Instincts occurs, emotion happens, reason happens. Believing that something is more natural than the other seems, from one oter point of view, just a hidden teleological point of view where the individual try to makes sense on what he is and what are his root.

### accept the non acceptation
One view, that I barely dare to suggest, is to fully accept that no acceptation is possible, that nature would never ever give us virtuous law to behave. Our ego is wounded and the human life is meaningless. This is another starting point. This goes along Nietzsche and Camus (and maybe others) view. This also gives the vertige of nihilism and absurd which obsessed these authors. Full acceptation of this state of the world is much more hard to achieve. Eternal return and "one should imagine sysiphe happy" are also more challenging thought experience.  I have the intuition that, building a philosophy of life based on this premisse would bring some values like individualism, life passions, conquest, creations and disruptions, a very important place that would, at first sight, give a strict opposite of stoicism. Nevertheless, I also feel that this path recquires more stoicism than stoic life itself. You need a much better control in a passionate life than in a stoic life. As I developped before, stoic life style is already a difficult conquest over oneself, which makes it completely inline with this idea to accept the wound. Ego must be both sedated and transformed to achieve a virtuous existence. Stoicism suggested how to do these both operations, but transformation can go further. This philosophy of life would be a potential step 2 after being a stoic, provoked by the realization that there is no Nature but only a wounded ego in an absurd world. Two paths are then possible. Let's stop this rambling now.

## 28/10/2015
### pneuma, beautiful pneuma
I just read https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pneuma_(Stoic) and found it beautiful. Binding human breath to a generative principle in the universe gives powerful images. Tension, life force, soul (and eventually rational force) are different levels of pneuma. When modernizing stoicism, these images would disappear from the mental repertoire of the stoic. But modernizing stoicism, to me, is also to recognize that this cosmology was produced by human minds who did not have our harsh science, it was produced by human minds for human minds. This way, physics was confortable stories, where our feeling where the starting point to develop more formal conceptions of the world. Stoic cosmology should be preserved as a repertoire of powerful mental images, and could also be strengthen and developped further, why not ? 

### we transcend nothing
Quote from paintedporch end of episode 4. We transcend nothing and nothing lasts, no matter how much we'd like to believe the opposite. From Barry Magid, in the book Ending the pursuit of hapiness : a Zen guide. Is Nietzsche/Camus project to kind of transcend the universe, while they say it's impossible ? If So, it must be thought.

### The Dance Song
All these thought about passions and reason made me think back to a passage of thus spake zarathutra that I felt in love 7 years ago. https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Thus_Spake_Zarathustra/Part_Two#32._The_Dance_Song . Wisdom and Life are depicted as two women. This chapter is both filled with powerful vivid images mixed with obscurity. The passage end on a sad note, like an existencial crisis. Here is a quote :

>And when I talked face to face with my wild Wisdom, she said to me angrily: "You will, you crave, you love; on that account alone do you praise Life!"
Then had I almost answered indignantly and told the truth to the angry one; and one cannot answer more indignantly than when one "tells the truth" to one's Wisdom.
For thus do things stand with us three. In my heart do I love only Life- and verily, most when I hate her!   

What does it means to prefer Life to Wisdom when Z hardly can know who is Life ? Wisdom has her own idea about the nature of this relation "you will[...]". How different Wisdom and Life are ? He can't really say neither. 
This firm affirmation of love mixed with a deep feeling of uncertainty and undecidability is beautiful and problematic, and the crux of this chapter and the reason, according to me, for the melancholic note at the end.

>An unknown presence is about me, and gazes thoughtfully. What! you live still, Zarathustra?
Why? Wherefore? Whereby? Where? Where? How? Is it not folly still to live?-

### Virtuous actions forcing virtous thoughts
I just being confronted to a basic wrong passion. Something I did, while a bit struck (because, yes, I am still not a stoic master), was to act fast and adequately. Then after the feeling of self-control and distanction took place. 

### Stress
I think a lot about how pressure works on me. I value a lot being able to think fast. There is, of course, a pain caused by the stress. But once the first few minutes of true discomfort, it's highy compensated by a sensation of real control of our mind process. A sharp attention. So, clearly, I don't know how to think about that.

## 29/10/2015
### outlines for a Nietzchean shift (to myself)
stoics wrote and talked to heal; genesis of metaphysical ideas are more important than speculation themselves ; they built their conception of nature upon the conception of their life; narcissism is the hardest passion to heal ; self-cultivation heal narcissism by transforming it ; higher degree of acceptation is recquired if passion, pain, and absurd are not rejected ; acceptation of pain, eternal recurrence, responsability for your dreams ; can be taken as a page from a book ; reject of stoic hypocrisy of (a) indifferent externals ("this is indifferent to me") (b) Real-life choices... as a failure in the project of Full Acceptation; stronger images and metaphor are recquired to compensate cosmology loss and support higher degree of acceptation ; nested soul.

## 2/11/2015
### physical and mental health
I found very interesting the thoughts of parolang on reddit https://www.reddit.com/r/Stoicism/comments/3r4ty2/thought_experiment_virtue_mental_health_physical/ .
I then keep a note here. The brief outline (of what I picked) is that as we know that physical health => mental health. So if one wants to keep his stoic abilities he must protect his body, which is considered as an indifferent external to ancient stoics. I must make up my mind on this problem.

### training and stoicism
This is the stoic week and I have to train for an event at the end of the week. I would have desired to get more time for both occupations. In the same time, it can produce unexepected outcomes. I have to deal with a bunch of emotions "stress, bad/good outcomes in training, anxiety for things outside my control zone, anxiety for things I put aside to get more time", and deal with a more profound question "Is it any wise to compete ?". This is harsh as it undermines my will. Anyway, I see in competition a pretext for emotional discipline. I feel that it's much more harder to be stoic now than the earlier weak. Not only concerning the emotions, but also concerning the parasite thougths about the possible outcomes of the competition. Let see how it goes.

### worship god to have a good relation with competition
As I wrote earlier, I believe that metaphysics and religious stuff should not totally be discarded and re-used intelligently for psychological purposes. Following my last post I wondered how an individual could benefit from the harsh discipline of training without being led (hear misslead) by outcomes such as fame and money. Then I told myself, why not putting value in competition in itself, disregarding any kind of possible externals. And another thought, as sudden, why not worshipping a god who wants me to train hard. Then...finally, I asked myself if it was not the case in ancient Greece. Do people compete as an act of worship ? After a quick google search, I had an affirmative answer. Of course that does not prove anything. I also could have lied here (but as I said, I experience honesty in this diary). I also doubt that it's the same reason, I guess any greek fest is supposed to worship zeus and his friends. But, still, It's funny. I may try to worship a Competition God in the next future, who knows ?

### virtue is the only good
Why is it a fundamental in stoic ethic ? Is it deduced from something else or is it an axiom. So many people are swearing by this precept that I am starting to wonder why this is central in stoicism. From what I read (maybe misread), I did not find the roots of this idea.

### Nietzsche battles on facebook
I had the luck to practise stoicism while reading comments about Nietzsche on one stoic facebook group. While having got some strawman attacks, others have good ideas "[..]Nietzsche would probably tell you that he intentionally built no system for others to follow[..]", "I'd like to see anyone point me toward any passage ever written by Nietzsche saying that virtue is the only good". "What have I learned here? That once Nietzsche enters into the conversation, things tend to go south. (Though really, I already knew that. )". I put some references on the claim of Ure and got some linkgs towards Ure worth reading. 

## 03/11/2015

### Detection of bad passions/emotions
Today, and maybe yesterday, I detected much of these things around me. I am amazed how much people complained and how much I am tempted to complain. I don't think, however, that I was perfectly mindful and virtous to handle each occurences, but my inner stoic bell rang many times. I think it's an important step. 

## 04/11/2015

### Arete is the only good
I felt uneasy with virtue is the only good. It sounds to me related to moral standards (kant or christian moral). However, this is just how I am used to read "virtue". As many point out, Arete is more close than Excellence than in vertue. I prefer excellence. I am much more inclined to accept statements such as "excellence is the only good". So be it ? Marie Snow on facebook "True virtue dos not come from a tablet of laws"[...]"In other words virtue comes from the inside. Clean the inside and the actions on the outside also are clean.". I abide.

## 05/11/2015

### logs
From a distanced point of view, this stoic week is going wrong for me. I got stormed by many things. Today and yesterday I did no mental training. But two things must be pointed out : (1) It could have been worse, even if I am disturbed, I can retrieve calm, or "calmer" than my old me (2) I did not blame myself and accepted that my stoicism this week is not ideal. I tend to put weigh to the hypothesis of wider acceptance that I outlined earlier. Full acceptance is acceptance that loosing intentionnaly or inintationnaly stoic mindset can happen. My second soul is doing a fine job (reference to feverish philosophy of life file).

## Irvine
3 weeks before I wrote nice things about Irvine book. I do not regret, and I still think that he targeted successfully a very noble (noblest ?) aim : inviting the reader to build a philosophy of life. By showing his own construction, he gives the example. Now I realised that his construction was to some extent far from ancient stoicism. Not about metaphysics and nature, but about the relation with pleasure, passion and achievements. The good point is that this stoicism is flexible, and it's  harder to be accused of being an hypocrite within this conception. The bad point is that the reader (as I was) may have a biased view of stoicism. I am now happy to know about the hardest lines of stoicism to make my mind about it. By giving the reader an easy starter kit, maybe it also provides the side effect to make him lazy to confront with harder lines of thoughts, prefering a mild and confortable system.

## this diary
I like how it goes. Keeping track of my old thought by respecting the integrety of the context from where they arise has some values. I see how my mind changed with time. 

## 08/11/2015

### Competition took place, not stoic at all, nevermind
Competition took place. I had not had the stoic minddful attention. But the stoic bell rang from times to times to change my mental state, like for example after bad results. So it's ok. I had certainly not the indifferent external mind this day, however I was more focused on each feat than its potential outcomes. So it's ok.

### Can't tam some thoughts
I just interrupted my breathing exercices with empty mind to think about something I can't help to think about. Nothing really related to sadness or anger, but more related to passions. As a Nietzschean, I would contrast this fail by suggesting that it's a bless to have some thoughts that you feel compel to develop. When some of your thoughts can sometimes be stronger than your thought controlling abilities, don't be a terrible dad and let them play outside for a few minutes, you are blessed to have such energetic children (to be copied in philosophy outline, I like this new image).

### metaphysics and mental images
I put this on facebook. This should be consigned here as my words seemed to represent more consisely thoughts I tried to develop before. This was in a thread "devil avocate" where OP asked criticisms against stoicism. "So, to chip in, my argument against stoicism is that they don't admit that what counts is not the belief in fate and zeus and so one, but the mental images of fate, zeus and so one. This is not the same thing. Metaphysical beliefs taken as such empedes improvements and limit free thinking. Metaphysical beliefs taken as a repertory for effective mental images, on the contrary, gives us the right to take what we want and move one with our own system."

### stoicism and other school of thoughts
On facebook, C.F interacted with me after this post. I learned from him : (1) cynics saw no values in stoic metaphysics (2) academic skeptics was criticizing Cataleptic impressions of stoics (so I looked up on wikipedia and learned what it is) (3) Epicureans disagreed with teology (4) Modern stoics seem to accept only the third axiom of his list (virtue is the only good) and try to "re-synthesize the system". I should make up my mind with the point 2. It seems that the platonic alternative is pure thinking and pure ideas etc.. which I don't buy. I guess, for me, Cataleptic impressions are the less evil, even if I don't like this idea that one impression can be true or false, this is again too close from platon's ideas.

## 16/11/2015

### 5 days of hedonism
I went on travel with friends to have fun. I did have fun, without especially caring about arete or prosoke. Only worked on my stoic mindset when I lost some of my belongings. What should I conclude from this experience ? I don't know yet, but it must be written there to think about that later.

### Hume, reason and passions
From M.B on facebook about Hume : "if I understand correctly, is that the passions are the only thing that can provide us with our motive force. It's the job of reason to achieve what the passions dictate. ". 

## 17/11/2015

### wrong mood
I feel bad today. The reasons I give to myself for this mood are not (even with stoicism aside) relevant. This makes me think to a lot of things. I feel distracted. Is this related with my 5 days of hedonism, or to my current tired state, or recent events. I can't be sure. It seems to be very frequent for me to feel bad after enjoyments. I don't know how reliable is this impression. Anyway, another question I ask is : should my mental state now be considered to be an external. I feel that the stoic schema is all about the reaction to external events. I think that I should take my current body state as an external. However, being analytical, reasonning, get the good choices and the good mental pictures is to me the golden way to fight (even if for the moment I rely a lot on coffee to get myself together). But I am skeptical about the power of stoic images to handle something that I would relate more about some sort of chemical state. The stoic schema is unadapted here. Why not take the inner soul schema I outlined in another file ? I feel it's easier to picture this situation in a peasible frame than it is with stoic images when it comes about these difficult things. Like a mother and its child.

### hedonistic hangover
Few things I noticed. I have more difficulties to keep my brain out of some object of desire. This is quite obvious, but it's not uncompelling at all. I come to think that these 5 days were valuable. I can now judge what is the price on my stoic mindset. I don't believe this week-end changed me radically, and I do think I'll recover fast. This idea also takes place in the Greater Acceptation I also tried to outline. I accept this as a hangover of the hedonostic days. I also don't think I have good reasons - for the moment - to avoid this kind of enjoyments in the future...because it was freaking cool. However, now that I am trying to develop good stoic passions, I don't exclude the idea that I will change my mind and think equanimity and virtue are not only better, but the sole goods I can take. For the moment, let beef up my stoic mindset. 

## 23/11/2015

### come back to stoic mindset
Last log on this diary : one week ago. The week I spend was not stoic (neither hedonist). What happened ? I barely remember. I just feel that I had troubles that I did not fix. So I got back to the kind of auto-pilot I was used to be during more than few moments in my life. So, it was a backslide, for sure. This morning I practised again morning exercices. I feel that I retrieve calm and...I must say...practical rationnality to plan my day and fix problems. And each time I retrieve this sense of control and the mental confort it procures, I ask myself, why not every day, this is just fucking 30 minutes of meditation to spend, and it brings so much. This is the weirdest feature of my auto-pilot mental life, not doing the small efforts to retrieve serenity and control. One is tempted to rationalize by saying that there are good reasons for that. I know people who are thinking that this mondane mood disorder is part of who they are. I was one of them. Now, I think it's something that one can and must discard from his life.

## 03/12/2015

### few points
My future self should not interpret this absence of logs as a slacking off. I am still building the stoic mindset even if meditations got rared. I felt a bit bored with my chain of images so practiced less. Maybe I should renew these images to get them vivid again. However the last image from the image chain is still very powerfull. I still listen a lot about stoicism via stoic podcast, I made a mind map of the compilation of quotes from epictetus made by Massimo. Soon public when I will figure out a way to split it in multiples maps. I have multiple readings not finished (Hadot, Steppen Wolf, Marcus, Ure). I realized that a part of the stoic mindset was immediately reachable. It's hard to put words on it but I should try for the purpose of its reproducibility if I happen to lose it. it's just an idea like"time to get serious, time to build a character". Head a little more inclined upwards, longer breath, body a bit more straighten. A sort of feeling that mix concentration and preparation for a fight. Sort of related to the outcomes of my last image in my chain. While reading quotes compilation of Massimo, I also figured out an anology with my ongoing training to the training of the stoic mindset. I train while measuring a lot my progression, the exercice would be boring if I had not the certainty (backed up by measurements) of it's usefullness. I know that it's the exercice I have to do. Rationnality has a big place here. This can be easily projected to stoic training. I must be confident that training improves my stoic mindset. I also must repeat short exercices accross the day. Can't be boring as I know this is a good path.

### [meditation] choose the right path
When you hesitate about different paths, ask yourself : "what is better : being confident about that you are doing is right and suffering physical incomforts or being doubtful about the rightneous of your choices and have a more confortable material situation". This is how I feel : When you are confident to be on the right path, mind and body becomes like metal. You won't ever blame yourself, this is the highest confort you can hope. What is the most unpleasant feeling "going to a just war or get stabbed ?". This is how I feel, your first war to win is yourself, ensure that your inner territory would never be taken. If your territory can't be taken, you can afford just wars, even the hardest one. Then you will feel twice well : peace and just wars. Do not follow this advice and you will suffer from wrong wars and civil wars at the same time.

### [meditation] absurdism
"Life is absurd !" you cry, or again, you also add "I would give everything for a Meaning once it shows up". First of all, you would certainly not give everything, won't you keep with you your ability to give ? Second, considere each possibility. if the Meaning never comes, why not building yourself a character and do, at your scale, what you think is right ? You would get the most of life from the point of view of rightness and hapiness. Second, if it comes, don't you want to be ready for this day ? Don't you want to build your strengh if such days appear ? Would you be idiot at the point to get into an hunger strike by desesperation of not being taken to participate in Olympics ? Weak as you become, if you are called, you would hate your days complaining instead of building your muscles ? Finally, if you resign yourself to think the world is absurd, and if you chose life over death, am I wrong if I say that it's an excellent setup to create order in the chaos, to create meaning within the absurd, to erect the tower that will resist the most tourmented weather of the universe ? "Life is absurd", then shows how much absurd it is by building the most beautifully shaped tower you can. Appreciating both your tower and its vertiginous feeling "after all this is nothing". You would get the slight smile of the king of the kings, the smile of a human having reached the highest acceptance. Again, you won in both worlds. The world where you know that everything is absurd and the world where you chose to play to spend time, puting aside the darkest idea.

### [meditation] "I am a"
Each time you start this sentence, beware. Don't forget that the father of your goods is "free thinking" and you would not want to shame your father, would you ? Look into yourself carefully each time you pronounce these words or you think using these words. Beware of laziness, beware of gregerous thinking, beware of anything that alleviate you the responsability of your philosphical system, anything that suggests that your journey of free thinker has come to an end. Sadly, many thinkers, with a profound culture a mind ten times more sharped than mine and elegant moral disposition had openly declared "I am a". Some even marked their body with this new commitment. Share with me the sadness of this spectacle, where these brillant people, momentarily inebriated by some blazing philosophical enlightment, believed that they had to commit to a system like commiting to a second wife or a second child. How rationnal, for a free thinker,  to anchor your mind. Stay alert, by keeping in mind that some of them are philosophers. 

### [quote] * "If you want any good, get it from within yourself."
That's all. I like this quote. This must be stored in the diary.

### [meditation] "I am a" (second)
Another reason why you should not anchor your mind in a school of thought is that their chief, by becoming chiefs, and sub-chiefs, renounced, even not knowingly to their free spirit. Too much is at stake to envision departures. Thus, many are the priest, who became atheist and never made their coming-out. Certainly for good reasons, sadly.

## 07/12/2015

### [meditation] Time and valuing activities.
Unless you are already wise, some activities are more pleasant than others, some are more usefull from others. Don't forget the doctrine of Higher Acceptance and embrace your uncompletion. Building your mind to get right ideas and right actions will close this gap between you should and you want. Now, think like Marcus who were maybe the most technical player to righten his ideas. Think about physical definitions and cosmic perspectives. In a few seconds, you can get your ideas right. Now, think about Seneca and his idea about time, and time keeping. This is the only thing you can spend. Combine these two perspectives and get your mind think about your pleasant and unpleasant task only from the perspective of time elapsed to end them. Your task is no longer a monster, it's a fix amount of time where you will controll your body to manage it. Take time definition of your task, and physical definition of your physical moves and mental moves to achieve it and your monster is no longer one. You won't need more than that, but if you want even more courage, recall the boxer analogy of Epictetus and appreciate that fate gave you a decent partner to train what you want to train. Pleasant activities can also be seen this way. You already pictured the outcomes, but did you pictured the time recquired to do it. Facture yourself this time, establish your quotation, and ask yourself if it's wise to sign.

### [meditation] Beware the sirens.
Epictetus warned you about the sirens you risk to encounter while learning stoicism which makes you focused on a specific stoic topic instead of building your philosophy as a whole. Beware indeed, as there is a sneaking siren hidding behind every activity, even the noblest. You end up wasting your time, closing your mind, seeking to reproduce the stimulation you got, until you feel the void of its absence. Even worst you would like to heal your void by seeking another siren ? This is how you lost your wisdom to become the mad man you were before. See each activity from the perspective of the dock analogy of epictetus. You can visit, you can possess things, at only one condition, to be absolutely ready to get back to the boat once the captain called yourself back. 

### [meditation] Higher acceptance variation on the sirens.
What follows is not stoicism anymore : Accept being wrapped up, this is the Higher Acceptance I am teaching you. Accept being recalled. Accept being hurt while doing so. This is not stoicism anymore. This is the Inner Soul doctrine I am teaching you. How is it compatible ? By building a mind that trust the images and the doctrines he built. While being hurt, while being wrapped up, one part of you is absolutely confident of the strengh of its inner soul.

### [meditation] the more a thinker writes on X
The more he writes about death, the more he needs strengh to fight death. The more he writes about fame, the more he needs strengh to fight attraction of fame. Why would he wrote about fame if he was not convinced this is a problem to solve for him then for others. Writing about a subject shows weakness and pain to heal, not wisdom. However, by healing himself, he heals ourselves, he gives us the physical and mental path to follow. Then, on what subject I am dwelling more than others ? Ego ? Existence and absurdism ? Will ? On what subjects I am dwelling less before than now ? jealousy ? I am not sure. Continue to write and you will be more sure.

### [meditation] "I must be wise"
One day, you visit a friend. All over the walls are written the sentence "I must be wise", would you say then that your friend is wise ?

### [log] the extreme right guy
I found an interesting guy, polite, thoughtful and interested by Nietzsche and Antique philosophies. Then I discovered he had a good relation to an extreme (or even extreme²) political party that I can't stand. What was my reaction ? Immediate reject of the individual "he sounded crazy since the beginning anyway", "I don't want to know more about him". Well maybe he is. But should I pause a moment here ? I ended up to defuse my reject by thinking that at least he was thinking and discussing. He is a man which seems to be able to discuss with. So he is not completely evil. When writing these lines more proper ideas came to my mind : "This is only a link from his blog to the party", "it seems right to him", "he is maybe more able to argue in favor of its political stance than me" "I can't blame philosophy if it brings people to an extreme, this may even be desirable". Each personn makes is own path. Don't judge the rationnality of others, and focus on my own rationnality. This is my kind of reject which makes people more extreme.

### [meditation] Death
Are you affraid about death ? Read Marcus Aurellius, who is to death what Batman is to bats. Not only you won't be afraid of death, but it can be the heart and the corner stone of your philosophical system. A golden perspective from which you judge everything. You get a new perspective on death and a new perspective brought by death. See ? A good thinker obsessed by something is the best healer you can find. Are you obsessed with the absurdity of existence ? Read Camus. Are you obsessed with your tumultuous passions ? Read Nietzsche.

### [meditation] other minds
You won't go far if you look for people approval. But, there are good chances that you got into wrong ways. Stay courageaous, traveller, don't go that far that you can't investigate other paths as I too many times did. But go far enough to see by yourself how good is your path. Go far and then ask people.

## 08/12/2015

### [log] self-denounciation and guilt
This morning I denounced myself concerning a fault I have made. I shall keep few notes about this process. What made me decide to tell the truth seemed to be more the idea "come one I can bear the consequences" than "I shall live in a moral way". One thing to notice is that I was completely mindless. I made several errors in planning my day during my guilt. The idea of fate also helped.  "it could not have been otherwise". I also applied to myself "at that time it sounded right to me", which is true. Few hours laters, while I was trying to evacuate my guilt, I had also to evacuate the guilt of evacuating my guilt. Always this thought in background : "you should suffer it to avoid reproducing it". I am skeptical about this, but this is a common idea which is hard to eliminate. One idea helped. "If you continue on the path of the stoic mindset, not only you won't hurt yourself with guilt, but also, by being more mindful, these errors are less prone to occur again".

### what you need
You probably need no more than the will to change, few exercices in the day and 50 quotes in your mind. Is this deceptively easy ? From a distant perspective it is. But humans got hard time to change from within. Humans are animals, animals react to environement. That why we use quotes, images, role models. Project the beauty from within to build the cognitive environnement you evolve in, and you shall succeed.

### (follow up)Forget inner strengh
Is it a hack ? Is it a workaround to our weakness ? I see, you may have prefered ideas of pure strengh, a divine origin, an inner fire that can do everything. We are creative, subtle. We are david, not goliath. But take time to think deeply about it, what is the most beautiful ? What is the most solid conception of your existence ? 

### (follow up) inner fire
So, is this is the end of the magnificient images of inner fire, inner divine power, our freedom our virtue that nothing can stop. No. This is a rebirth. Read me again. You build your images, and your images build you. The will is your most important feature. Nourish it by what it likes the most.

### [meditation]free to react well
Whatever happens to you, nothing and no one can empeach you to think properly.
// everywhere in Epictetus and Marcus, but I like this very dense version.

### [log] progress
There is no doubt that the man I am during these last days is not the man from the start of this diary. I did not took time to read back the first thing I wrote. I should, and it will be interesting. But I remember some of the complains on stupid things I had. I am ashamed. This is a good hint that there is a progression. I should not be ashamed though, as this is past, this is senseless emotion, and I have no assurance to not return to this mental disturbances. If it occurs again, should I be ashamed ? Probably not. But if I am ashamed to my past self, I encounter a risk of dissonnance.

### [fun] secret to heal a moral pain
1) Takes a smart man. 2) Inflict him your pain. 3) Steal him the network of ideas he made to fight his pain.

### [log] one comment to take me down
Something late "why don't you work on X ? You will have troubles if you start working on X too late". This made me down. Physiological symptoms of stress, anxiety, shorter breath, doidering on internet. I do not want to do the "right" things I planned to do. This was only 10min ago, but it's already enough. This note targets the dissection of my feeling. I should do my best ? Then study and digest this thing. What judgement should I have ? He is right ? Maybe ! The point is that the mistake has been done earlier. I did not plan. Not planning is exposing myself to this kind of disturbing feeling. Not the sudden realization, but an increase of anxiety as I do not properly analyse (and most likely don't want to). Another note to add is that this moment is one amongst many I have in my routine life. They look like a lot each others. So, let's apply reason and maxim. Take a moment to breath, and cold analyse this situation. Tonight, analyse deeper this situation. I feel a burst of emotion by the idea that I may one day be immune to this. Occuring less often, and handled more efficiently if I react according my precepts.

### [meditation] like a kid
Don't be like this kid, who once starts loosing a board game does not want to play anymore. You have a difficulty and you start thinking less seriously your commitment to the act of building a strong mindset. Are you that a bad player ? Shows me you are better than that, and do what is in your power. 

### [meditation] invasion analogy
When some part of your empire is envaded, do you look away or chase away your invaders ? Then, when your mind is invaded, don't shame yourself by not thinking anymore. Chase actively your invaders and take back your most precious ability.

### [meditation] horserider analogy
The knight got nervous as a result his horse became hard to control. To retrieve the knight has to activel calm the horse before having a chance to retrieve his calm. This is the same for your mind and your body. If you lose temper at such point that your body got contracted. Take time to calm it, take long breaths, walk, take your time, and then you have a chance to think clearly again.

## 09/12/2015

### [meditation] one step ahead, not too
When you think right, you can act right. You also discovered that acting right can help you thinking right, then you can afford to put your body one step ahead from your mind. But do not try to have two steps ahead, or assent to the guilt for not being two steps ahead. If you do, you will create the gap between what you are and you do, what you feel right and what is told you to be right. You need unity, whatever it costs. This is higher acceptance. If something has to change, it will change by the time of your progression. If you don't feel confident, and you think that only harsh measures are availables, then you don't trust the path you have taken or you don't trust yourself to improve along this path. It's all about your path, not the assent of new rules and new dogmas. You are a free thinker, not a devot.

## 10/12/2015

### [log] morning fail, how to get back to a proper mental state
No meditation, no planning, I just entered my day carelessly. No attention, no control, just doing some thing and some others when it comes to my mind. Got distracted. So, what is the shortest path to retrieve the mindset. Writing these lines (1), of course, helps. But I may not want do that each time. I see some other possibilities, possibly overlapping : meditate on a "starter quote", (2) the kind of quote which stirs up my stoic mindset such as "Do you have reason? I have. Why then do you not use it? Meditations IV.13 " or "How long will you wait before you demand the best of yourself, and trust reason to determine what is best? Enchiridion 51.1 ". (credits to Massimo for his collection of quotes) (3) Ask my body only 2 minutes of his time and apply the shortest path to retrieve calm. (4) Read (profound book not stuff on the internet), in a sense this is a distraction but a distraction getting the mind focused. (5) analyse why am in this state, blamelessly, keeping in mind that it could not have been otherwisee. Try to identify if there is a little something that some part of you don't want to think about, and face it (6) Kick my own ass "don't be a fucking lazy bastard and build yourself a character. Are you such lame that only mild wind get you lost balance. Olympics has started, only the spectator has the leisure to seat and watch carelessely not the gladiator. You picked your role, stick to it". (7) Reserve a short time frame (1h) to engaging seriously in one activity, whatever its relevancy, but with strict rationnality in the execution and strong attention. (8) Just stop your mind, walk and breath. (9) straigthen your body and hold your jaw as a serious man.

## 12/12/2015

### [meditation]
one of the deepest allure of philosophy is that any act, any thought can be related to a framework, whether to be guided by or to enrich it.

### [thinking] back to Irvine
Now that I learned more about stoicism. I should get back to my first appraisal. I conserve my outmost appreciation of the idea he put forward : "we should build our philosophy of life". He built his one, but I did not (and could not) realized that some points were problematically distant from ancient stoicism. If externals are indifferent, the only thing to focus on his building a character. This proposition could be turned into a cursor. The cursor of Irvine is too close from externals, and the variation of some of stoic ideas he used (trichotomy of control, premeditum malorum in order to appreciate more the thing we have now) can be understood this way. The modern stoicism claimed by Irvine maybe more about the use of stoic techniques within a consummerist mindset than the use of the stoic system to change our mindset itself. Of course these are somewhat harsh overstatements, but this allows me to pinpoint the problematic aspect of Irvine book. I think I had difficulties to seize how virtue could be the sole good. When I encountered this maxim on reddit, I was a bit horrified and had thoughts like "it must be a bunch of christians". Now I get that (1) this is almost a consequence of dichotomy of control (2) I am free to use the definition of virtue I feel confortable with, which seems currently to end in something like excellence in character. And I also now that I am not a full stoic, as I don't want to dismiss passions from my philosophy.

### [log] dissection of a procrastination
referring to the 10/12 post, I picked the option (7). This was a bad choice as (a) I did not felt great during this period (b) this did not solve my problem. But I can't deny that (c) I productively achieved an objective. Months ago, I would advocate that c>a+b. I now tend to consider that this trade-off exists only in the imagination of poor souls. The image of the trade-off allows us to cheaply frame their mental disturbance in a schema where they have a place. I do not exclude from my system temporary escaping of the stoic mindset. But escaping stoicism when I need it the most is to be avoided...obviously. I am disgressing right now, but maybe this is something that has to be recognized in order to get people (including myself) change for the better. So, I picked (7) which turned to be an ostrich-like approach instead of what it targeted. With hindsight, it was predictible. The more I worked on my stuff, the more I dig my head in sand. So, it comes to the classic schemata, quite theatracally, mild anxiousness leave to get on scene the monster of responsability, which can't be avoided. So (7) was more about motivated reasonning than rationnality. Beware of 7. 

## 14/12/2015

### [thinking] Helpful Pierre Hadot (1/4 read) 
I have started to read the inner citadel. I did not even read a quarter and I already find it extremely helpful. Until now I saw redoundancy in Marcus-Aurelius boring and symptomatic of his obessions. Hadot made me frame it in a quite other way. He did with his mind what a dancer do with his legs, repeating a movement to improve it and progress towards perfection. Would I say, that a dancer painfully exercising a same movement accross various variation, is boring and symptomatic ? No, I would say it is pure beauty.

### [meditation] do not give until
Do not give until you feel compelled to give. You want to want to give ? This is suspicious. Desire self-mastery before, desire building the mindset and let your actions flow smoothly from the mind you built. If you fail and abandonn this path, then join the thoughtless givers who are assuaging their conscience instead of building ones.

## 16/12/2015

### [thinking] laziness and bad faith
I encounter difficulties such as I do not find satisfactory solutions, only picking the less bad options. My mind cry "this is a nonsense to do such things" "the system is broken" "in a perfect world I would not have to do that" "let's leave this absurd field". In any case, complaining should not be an option. If indeed, this field is too problematic, I should analyse it with reason and whithout this bunch of emotions only related to my powerlessness. In the meantime I shall focus on what is in my control, and focus on building the mindset which does so. I should avoid letting a mental state speaking in my name. I am tired, recognizing it is the first step, the second is to avoid tiredness speak on your behalf.

### [thinking] 90 minutes of meditation a day for a month
Meditation is central for my goals, but I have difficulties sticking to it. When I woke not early enough, I skip it. I should force my time to allocate at least 20 minutes the morning. 20 min late is not being late. I should also target something like 90 min overall as an experiment. Maybe using some positive psychology methods by being prompted randomly throughout the day to store my subjective well-being. This is not double blind but I do not care much. I should compare with non-meditation days to do that properly. My belief is that it also strenghten the mindset I want to build.

## 29/12/2015

### [thinking] social
Stoic meditation of the day (by Massimo Pigliucci): "The rational animal is consequently also a social animal." (Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, X.2).
This feels weird, as social.

## 04/01/2015

### [thinking] laziness
I don't know if it's laziness or some sort of more complex mindset, but the point is that, more than often, I do not do what people expect me to do. This is maybe my main problem in life. When I look into stoicisme, I read many lines about how to deal with life, but after careful consideration, this is not life as a sum of external event that troubles me, this is life as what the kind of impasse I tend to get stuck in. This primordial observation must redirect my effort. I can't feel right if I think I behave badly. I should focus on the discipline of action. Ironically, this is the discipline I like least. I should also inspect deeply what's going on inside me when I am about to think about the stuff I have to make. What feelings I have. What feelings I should have. I should also make enlighted choices. Some decisions I make are not completely absurd. If I procrastinate by learning new important things, this is defendable. But, I should not defend my choices afterwards. I should carefully inspect each. Instead, what I do, is to hide my head in sands and I judge my options on a very very superficial aspect. Indeed, this is the point of this behavior, avoid any deep consideration about the situation at hand. So, as a matter of conclusions. I should focus on "action". That does not mean "just do it", but means investigating carefully what drives good or bad actions. Under this perspective, any good or bad action has a learning outcome under the condition that my attention is strong.

### [thinking] last point of procrastination
At the current time, I have strong need to do something and retrieve my self-control. Instead I did (1) wrote an email to a friend related to self-control and stoicism (2) wrote the previous note (and this one). Two hypothesis to explain (1) avoidance strategy, by finding valuable task to replace the target task (2) build-up strategy by retrieving a stoic stance or (3) a mix between the former points. Should be investigated further. (2) alone can't be stand face to the evidence that I want to find alternative tasks.

### [meditation] three friends
Your journey in stoicism can be sumed up by camping with these three friends. Epictetus is kicking your butt to stir up the flames, Marcus Aurelius giving you wood keep it going, Seneca talking with you and showing you how to use the fire.

### [meditation] philosophy of life > personnal dev
Why building a philosophy of life is better than collecting personal development advices ? For many reasons. First you go deep into meaning and into defining consciously your goels. Second you ensure consistency to a set of ideas. Last, any freaking conscious time, you can relate to this framework. You can continue to build it or get guidelines from it to go through your current situation. 

### [meditation] framework, computer science analogy
Advices are like libraries, Philosophy of life is like a framework. A framework has generally some libraries included, others that are not in the core but going well with it, sometimes going so well that it's end up included. For small ambitions a conscious work and eventually few libraries can provide achievement. But for big ambitions, if you avoid the framework you end up in a awfull mess, ending up in negligeance, ending up in a more awfull mess, ending up in a discontinued project. Do you want your life to be a discontinued project ?

### [meditation] avoid wrong actions
When the moment of a non-stoic action about to be made is suspended. Don't tell yourself "I can't do this". What are you ? A tyrant ? Don't you know better ? Tell yourself instead "I totally can, go ahead, the problem is that it's ridiculous". Then measure quickly what you gain if you do and if you don't, what you lose if you do and if you don't. Never try to use force against yourself. Be as tricky to yourself as you are to others when giving them the confident "I am sure you will do what you think is right", it's not only a trick, it's empowering the reason over all the other forces.

## 07/01/2016
### [meditation] about meditation
One day you tell me that the improvement brought by meditation is such that you are under the impression to contemplate a gap between the beast and the man. One other day, you tell me that you don't have time for that. Then, did you lie to me about the beast image ? Or maybe do you like to be a beast ? 

## 11/01/2016
### [meditation] tracking wrong micro judgements
Keep the habit to detect this thought "If I do that, People will judge me favorably". This thought may come back 100 times a day without being loud enough to hit your conscience. But you are now attentive, and you can gently grab it when she appears. Capturing her is valuable. If you have nothing more urgent, take the time to correct her "would you rather say that if you do X you will act well" or ask her "if this the deep motive for X, then we will have to talk later in the evenning to figure this problem out". Now, please evaluate what is more urgent than to correct a desire if not to correct another desire, a judgement or an action.

## 27/01/2016
### [meditation] emotions
First you let your emotions invade your mental life, take control of your judgement then you come out with some reasons for this impassibility. Then, more than being a weak personn, you blind yourself with dishonesty. 

### [meditation] cold collect what get you forward
All is about technique, even motivation. Getting motivated is to a large extent a matter of control, of knowing exactly what will stir up your inner fire again. Collect these small petty things that have the ability to restart the engine. One or two quote of Epictetus Maybe. One or two stoic rituals to retrieve control. One or two musics. One or two mental tricks that get you smart. But don't ever again play the brute force role. You are not stronger than your emotions, but you are smarter. To beat emotions by force you were creating stronger emotions. Or even worse, stronger emotions invaded you and you claimed to have invoked them. Whatever, enivred by the overflow of adrenaline and the dreadful spectacle of taking back control in a more than determined fashion you falsely claim that you got better, that you would stay in control for the future. But deep inside you know that this is pure bullshit and you hate yourself for that, for knowing that you will end up the same very shortly. Even worse, after wining this battle you just came up with new emotions to beat. If you have credit, would you take another credit to pay the first one ? Don't play the strong man anymore, play the smart man. Build your framework. A philosophy of life to have a sky of ideas to look at, and smooth tricks to force you to raise your head towards it.

## 04/02/2016
### [meditation] keeping virtue by considerating end and repetition
To keep the fire of your virtue alimented, repeat and forge these lines in your heart.
Get this breathing meaningful such as it is my last, carefully crafted such as I had eternally repeat it. 
Get this minute meaningful such as it was my last, carefully crafted such as I had eternally repeat it.
Get this day meaningful such as it was my last, carefully crafted such as I had eternally repeat it.
Get this momentary struggle meaningful such as it was my last, carefully crafted such as I had eternally repeat it.
Get this life carefully crafted such as I had eternally repeat it.

### [meditation] What to do with your life
The first thing to keep in mind is, whatever what you do, you must do with a state of mind following the nature, or to get the precept more close to your heart, to work to attain the excellence of your character. Concerning the rest, focus on what you do best and what in the same time has vertuous outcome for yourself and for the society. Kepping three marks into account may be hard. Keep a qualitative judgement and don't take the risk of being utilitarian if it risks you to lose your grip to virtue. Being utilitarian without virtue can be ill. As epictectus framed, consider precisely what precedes and follows so that you won't change your mind and play multiple roles like a child. Try to play a single role, under the exigence of the stage director constituted by the ruling faculty of your mind.

### [meditation] Treat joy burst as sadness burst
On event can be joyful. You are not the slave of the valence of events, you want the upper hand. Joy burst, as sadness burst is to be cared of. If you can't avoid to be momentary wrapped by it, you can manage to retrieve serenety. Don't forget that it's momentary, that you can't build a life free from externals if you get enslaved by it. If you don't do this effort, you take the risk of craving for a similar stimulation, or the risk to be weakened facing deception. It's not rare that the thing itself for you are joyful would cause you decept. And, then the small stability you painfully acquired got stolen from you by a siren. "But I feel good, how it could be bad". At what price do you sell your mental stability ? "Would you tell me then to shut momentary joyful feeling". No, but just as mourning, contemplate the spectacle with attention, don't forget that soon this will disapear and you will have to retrieve your calm. Inspect your judgement, what makes you feel this way if not a judgement, my judgement could be wrong. Keep in mind that this joyful event could have been a deceptive one. Contemplate the broader picture and will progressively turn your animal joy into a more human joy. This ability alone belongs to you. 

## 09/02/2016

### [thinking] Playing chess by enjoying moves not final outcomes
I remember that I felt better when I switched my perspective on playing chess. I was a trembling player completely tied to the outcome of the game. I was under strong emotions whereas I was about to win or lose. When I tried to play for the moves and not for the final outcomes, I felt relieved. You do not play chess to win. You play chess because you appreciate pondering moves, judging position while being absorbed in a deep reflective state. This is the same with life for stoicism. Desires out of my control zone brings nowhere, focus on consciousness, on keeping mind comform to the nature, preserved the tension allowing your body and your mind to stay straight, this is a way more wise attitude. 

## 16/02/2016

### [thinking] Toward a simplified or unified representation of stoicism
I read about the argument between Massimo and various members of the stoic community. I won't develop of the maximising agency thing, as I don't fully grasp the whole idea. However, it made me think of the importance to build a simple view with core statements and derived statements. The quality of this view (from the standpoint of the individual) seems to depend of its simplicity and its accordance to the philosophy of life we are trying to build. What follows is my current perception of stoicism. Stoicism core statement = for an ideal happy life (A1) focusing on what I can control is **necessary** and (A2) stay in accordance to the love of mankind. (B) This is a radical mental shift which needs, to be implemented, to be supported by conscious self-manipulation including reading, writing and recourse to various exercices and mental images bending our mind to thinking habits inline with the stoic doctrine. *(A1)* proposition may be defended by some reasonning and is an empirical questino to a minor extent only, *(A2)* is closer an act of faith, a given of the reality. The most important question is : does it fit your conception of life or not. On the contrary, *(B)*, itself is an empirical statement at the scale of the individual or at the scientific scale. The goal is to achieve the respect of *(A)* the most efficiently possible. Statements related to *(B)* fit most stoic corpus while *(A)* and implied core statements represent a very little part. Your happinness, in its profound term, depends only in what you do, and what you think. 

(A1) could be supported by such idea : (1) to be happy, I should avoid being hurt by things I cannot control and having desires that can be deceived. From (1) it follows that (i) I must be able to differentiate what is under my control and what is not under my control and focus on what I can control. This way, I won't enter any battle I can lose. I should build a charachter and have right judgements about events and situations in the external world. 

From this freedom of events newly acquired, I can afford to be virtous by focusing on the value of my actions - fate permitting. (A2) is about love of mankind, but it can be replaced by another value without getting the whole edifice unstable. This is A2 or any other similar act of faith that gives impetus to traditionnal and modern stoics, that force you to stay in the world and act in accordance of value, always under the undefectible respect of A1. Obviously, this is tricky, as it places some sort of value in some sort of thing that you cannot control. The value of intentions, not outcomes must be the heart of the actions. But, in everything related to others, careful thinking is recquired to value others via vertues while loosing the focus on what can be controlled. Then three disciplines are often listed to describe stoicism tenets : judgement, desire, action. Desire is tied to A1, judgements too but A2 is involved too, and actions is more tied to A2 than to A1. Let's take for example the "you shall not lie". For A1 lying or not lying is indifferent as I can bear the consequences equally for both choices, but for A2 it is not. If I want the best for mankind, I must allow other to form right judgements, just as I need right judgements to achieve A1 and A2. 

## 17/02/2016

### [meditation] monster tasks
A monster task is not a big task, it's a task which scares you, which careless that you are invade your mind with wrong thoughts. Focus on the **how**. Develop your system to keep composure, dignity and efficacy even facing the tasks that you laudate. This is not stoicism, this is about the system of ideas you build and put above yourself. Keep them close to you. Don't reject practical ones to the profit of abstract one. Abstract ideas are no use if you lost your equanimity. 

## 22/02/2016

### [think] excitated states
I put in the same category all the activities that excitate us. Like playing fast games, going out to have friend and like other things I have not in mind at the moment. While these activities are not put aside, they represent the challenge to get calm again. What kind of exercices (or ritual) can I have to switch to my other self, or too diminish quickly my mental temperature to a colder state ? The funny problem is that I certainly don't want to meditate in this state, as it sounds boring to my excitated self. But maybe this has to be done forcefully. This is a question to investigate. I believe I already wrote something along these lines. I have not read myself at the moment. I should. This kind of thought rely on the fact that I am not a stoic yet, but still, this is a relevant stoic exercice conditionnaly to the fact that I am not a stoic yet. This status quo, that Epictetus would certainly have rejected is harder to conceptualize than the pure stoic conception (such as in Epictetus). Obviously there are certainly elements in Seneca and Marcus and I have not fully read them.

## 23/02/2016
### [meditation] "judge well, act well" as a quick fix
When some emotions come as uninvited guess to your place, recall what you focus only on these three : judge well and act well. Take from you guests only what allows you to perform your job as a philosopher, and farily discard them without any sidethought the rest as you deeply know that focusing these mental abilities is the sole thing you need to consider to have a fulfilling life.

### [meditation] "judge well, act well"
I am confronted with insults, hardship, hardchoices. "- who I am ?" "- someone who tries to fix his jugdements and his actions". I am nothing else. I see nothing else than what concern this ability. I have not the eye nor the mind to consider other things.

### [meditation] temptations as signs of a lack in proper work beforehand
Any time you feel tempted to seek pleasure, keep in mind that your current choice is only half of the work as the other half concern the mindset you had to train properly, and wich apparently you don't as you have noisy and nasty thoughts such as uninvited guests at your place. You let doors, windows open, if not a sign at the front of your house and now you struggling to reject properly your guests and got eventually them protesting, which is fair from their side. You can't win a battle only with decisions taking place during the battle field, but with careful preparation of your troups and their weapons.

## 24/02/2016
### [meditation] self-judgement
Focusing on self-judging worths ten times more judging others and hundred times more focusing on how people judge. Within a stoic mindset (even in its infancy) self judging is superior on each of the three fundamental dimensions : its implication in your hapiness, the access you have of it, the control you have on it.