Build your mental Enchiridion with the method of Loci. 
======================================================
Two notes to begin :
- English is not my native language. If you intend to read it, don't forget to do it with goal of keeping your mind conforming to the state of nature.
- You are reading this page within a powerful tool for collaboration and versionning. It will change over time to correct my english or add some elements. I would like feed-backs before publishing (or trying to) in a less geeky space, so shoot me a mail at mythinkingself - at - gmail.com if you have suggestions.

## Introduction

In competition, the contestants use the method of Loci for most of the [10 official disciplines.](http://buzan.com.au/learning/Ten_Memory_Disciplines_2012_Revisions.pdf) Yes, the memory method favored by ancient Greeks and Romans. Like stoicism, this method is living a renaissance after years of hibernation, attracting more and more people. This method is useful to learn lists of items loosely connected, which makes a powerful tool to learn the kind of weird stuff to be learned in competition. If it's true that an important amount of training is necessary to get the [incredible achievements competitors reach. ](http://www.world-memory-statistics.com/disciplines.php)the method is still easy to learn and gives quickly more than decent outcomes for various stuff to memorize. This page intends to provide a tutorial to build your **mental enchiridion**. As I am into stoicism and into memory techniques, I experimented a bit to combine my interest for both disciplines. I will introduce two methods. I used both with pleasant outcomes, I then felt that I should share it with curious readers.
I tend to differentiate memorization with understanding. The latter is the most important while the former is more like a gadget and could be thought as a personnal notebook which is highly portable and allowing a fast access. The methods I talk about is only dealing with this gadget.
## Brief introduction to the method
Loci is the *Latin* for places. Let's suppose you have a shopping list of 10 items to remember. The method consists of threesteps :
- Think of a journey segmented with 10 places (your bed, desk, bathroom, hall...). You should be able to picture these places in your mind.
- Transform each item into a mental image. You can use exaggeration. A fish can be replaced by a monstrous fish, cucumbers by an army of bitter cucumbers.
- Put your mental images successively into your loci (1 image for 1 loci). You have to **see** it in yourmind.
You have just stored information in a robust manner. Follow mentally your loci and you will retrieve quite easily the image you put in it. It can stay days in memory. For a long term memory, you need to rehearse it from times to time. Smart intervals can be used with the help of spaced repetition. Software like Anki do it for you.

## Method 1 : Deep encoding of selected precepts

List the precepts you want to keep in mind, turn them into images. It may be tricky. You can use visualization techniques suggested by ancient and moderns authors and thinkers. For the dichotomy of control, for example, Robert Donaldson suggests in his book to visualize a blue sphere. The circles of Hierocles can also be turned into vivid images. The goal, for this method, is to create images that signify a lot, eventually by playing some scenes in your mind for each loci. A Loci can store more than one precept if these images are strongly tied. To be more concrete here are my mental images, only *10* locis are required. Some of them may sound weird or unclear, but the most powerful and personnal they are, the more I appreciate them. A lot of these images are inspired from the Enchiridion, I use E: to explicitely refer to these passages when possible. Once you get the idea and got tired of reading weird content, go to method 2.
- Locus 1 (a): "butt-kicking precepts" ; Epictetus looking me in the eyes and saying "how much time will you wait to demand of yourself the best and trust reason to determine what is best".
- Locus 1 (b) : "dichotomy of control"; He then suggests two pills (Morpheus-like), says few words about the dichotomy of control and demands me on what I want to focus. I choose the blue pill, a blue sphere appears, a sense of control, serenity comes up, as well as a tension, a feeling that "Olympiads has started". Related to E:1, E:2.
- Locus 3 : "watch time" ; Seneca comes up and gives me a sand timer. Explain that it I must not forget I will die, that I must take each day as the last. That I should value my time. That each second can be spent with serenity if I want.
- Locus 4 : "Judgment";I am confronted with a harsh appearance, this takes the form of a huge meteorite rushing towards me. First accept the event with dignity, showing the nerves of a philosopher "Now is the combat", "This is an occasion to practice stoicism". I am not struck by the appearance, by the effect of my mind, the projectile slows down, I can study it. I study it. This is just stone, if I have to die then OK, if I don't the later, if I lose an arm, then so be it. "Amor Fati". By analysis, the stone loses its shadows and takes a smaller form. It may or may not hurt my body, if it does, "this is nothing to me".
- Locus 5 : "Amor Fati and externals"; As I am walking, I am following a vortex projecting my future path [(Similar as in the sci-fi movie Donnie Darko)](http://s.tf1.fr/mmdia/i/96/1/3990961mqjcw.jpg?v=1) a similar shape is left behind me. I appreciate the fact that neither my past nor my future can be changed, that it is what it is. Upon this image I put some of the mental images suggested by Epictetus (E:15, E:11, E:7) highlighting that you can take and appreciate things around you but always keep in mind that you won't get them forever, that you will return it soon or later. Externals go and leave across my walking (people, food and other goods) by following this blue vortex.
- Locus 6 : "goals"; Visual representation of E:4, I have two alternatives, materialized as golden objects 100meters away. I consider them, determine "what precedes and follows". The first one seems to require me to lose my state of mind. The color of the first object turns red, signifying that I should not. The second, on the contrary turns blue, there are some preferred indifferent in this option, and it's possible to get there by keeping a mind conform to the state of nature. This option concerns the public bath (cf E:4). Then I go to public baths, but with the primary goal to keep my mind conform to the state of nature. The objects then turn to blue.
- Locus 7 (a) : "reputation"; A man is standing on a scene, acclaimed by people and seems to be a good orator. He is talking on the things I am working on but not relevantly. Instead of anger and jealousy I consider the price he paid for being a public person. He has fame and paid it by enslavement with externals. He has traded his inner good a large number of times, and continues to trade it for something which is not good. He seems happy and enviable but has inside him torments of stress. Instead, I listen carefully and focus on what I can learn from him, or from this moment.
- Locus 7 (b) : "disreputation" ; People realized my presence and start to insult me, finger pointed, projecting aggressive rays. I remember that only my judgment count. Their judgment is not my problem, my goal is to fix my judgment. The blue sphere appears, filtering rays into blue waves.
- Locus 7 (c) : "inclusive perspectives shift" ; I take information if any, once it's done I remember my love for people, even my aggressors, that they did what it seems right to them. They are included into white circles (Hierocles) which are gradually expanding until including all the human life from this area to the whole world. Following this exercise I take the view from above. I have the point of view of the cosmos, and get amused by the fact that one day at one place in a country a man has been insulted, and has reacted well or wrong, this is still one among a million of similar case, that at other places people get other kind of easier or harder hardship, but that planets still gravitate the way they do, that humans play the same insignificant game of life at each place in the world, like agitated ants.
- Locus 8 : "time" ; The sand timer gets incandescent. As my state of mind is clear, I can enjoy a very precious inner good, time. I breathe and connect to myself and surroundings, find beautiful the less significant things around me. Each second is a blessing. I feel full and void at the same time. Full as connected, void as the frontier of myself get blurred by this connection.
- Locus 9 : "friendship" ; I found a friend on my way. We exchanged ideas while keeping our state of mind conforms to the state of nature. We are attentive and let the silence and the world being the main protagonist.
- Locus 10 : "Prosoke" ; Epictetus come back, node to recognize my improvements but say it's not enough and gets me on the middle of a small arena. The sand timer is turned into a sword. He explains that everything will be lost if it's not strengthened by a high tension in my soul. That I must have a diligent attention, like a gladiator in the arena who takes hint on the smallest detail in his environment. I turn around in circle, my eyes are jumping fast from elements to elements, getting notice of everything, every move, human, non- human, my moves also the placements of my arms and legs, the way I breathe and hold my sword. The tension into my soul gets even stronger and explodes in successive inclusive red spheres. At each breath, the tension explodes in a bigger sphere representing a higher degree of attention encompassing more and more elements. Then, at the end of the exercises, the sphere got invisible. No more energy is spent, but a higher degree of control has been reached. I continue mywalk.

## Method 2 : Shallow encoding of precepts from a book

The goal is only to maintain into memory a list of pointers towards ideas. The advantage is that by memorizing only pointers, you can memorize more ideas. With the technique I will explain you can also have access of the relevant chapters where ideas are stored. The technique is closer than what people do in memory competition. Let's say you want to remember the Enchiridion by Epictetus. As passages are numerically indexed, we will take advantage of it. There is a prerequisite which is optional but advised for a better memorization, and is an important step if you want to go further into memory techniques to learn other things with numbers in it. What is needed is a "Major system", which is a table of association linking numbers to images. This table is static and learned once for all. There is a facilitator to build and learn this table, and some examples are[available on the web.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic_major_system) This is a phonetic code. The most common code is : **0=s/z, 1=t/d, 2=n, 3=m, 4=r, 5=l, 6=ch/v, 7=k, 8=f/v, 9=p/b**. This means that the 01 may be associated with a word such as "s...t..." or "s...d..", so, *"Santa"* can be a good image, *"seed"* is also possible along with *"soda"*. This code help to remember what image is linked to **01**. Some tables following this code exist on the web, and [some software](http://www.got2know.net/) can print a list of suggestions for each number. By simply using this table, like in the tutorial I will present, the images would almost stay in memory. If you want to strengthen these associations on the long term, some tools exist (anki, memrize ...).
The first passage on the enchiridion deals with the setup of the dichotomy of control. Go to your **Locus 1**, the goal is to mix the image of your numerical index (i.e Santa) with the content of this passage. Yes, it may be funny. So, why not Santa refusing to give a present to a child, explaining that what it contains is not in his power and that, to be free and unrestrained the child should focus on himself and straighten up.
The second passage develops the consequence of following each side of the dichotomy of control. **02** can be matched with Sun. So...why not the same child with a sun-like face [(like this one)](https://pmctvline2.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/teletubbies-sun-teaser.jpg?w=300&h=208&crop=1) which has two paths in front of him, one with some presents, and another without.
etc...

As you noticed, mental images in the method 2 are different from the first method. These images can be silly a bit dull, and fairly unconnected with the core meaning of the various precepts and then more close from the term "mnemonic". From my own practice, very often, only a keyword is stored in my locus in association with my numerical index, for example at my locus *07* I just have *someone* leaving a boat and at the locus *15*, *someone* eating at a dinner (replace "someone" by the image in my numerical index). Because I know well the Enchiridion I know what is referred by these images. This is my list of keyword for the Enchiridion : 

> 01: power, 02: happiness, 03: child and cup, 04: bath, 05: death and blame, 06: proud, 07: port, 08: wish and happens, 09: desease, 10: accident and power, 11: returned it, 12: slave, 13: externals, 14: hope to others, 15: banquet, 16: pity, 17: actor, 18: raven, 19: combat, 20: insult, 21: death, 22: laughed at, 23: externals, 24: honour, 25: letuce, 26: neighbour, 27: mark, 28: handing body, 29: gladiator, 30: father, 31: piety, 32: future, 33: character, 34: pleasure, 35: action, 36: entertainement, 37: humble, 38: foot, 39: foot & cliff, 40: mistresses, 41: activity, 42: insults, he is the person hurt, 43: handles, 44: richer than you, 45: appearance, 46: act like a philosopher, 47: water, 48: vulgar, 49: overly confident, 50: abide by rules, 51: how long, 52: moral theorems, 53: maxims

Such a table, written on a computer file or on a sheet of paper may be usefull to test and rehearse your memorization.

I am relatively absent from these images (on the contrary the first method is focused on the self). What you can achieve, by this technique which focus on remembering pointers, is to get a mental index of precepts. This is useful to mentally rehearse or grab the passage you want to read again or refer to or to do a mental fast review of stoic precepts (could last less than 2 minutes with experience). The method I gave by adding images related to the numerical indexes can be lighten up by storing an image only every 5 items, or can be put aside if getting to know the numerical index of each passage is not something you desire. On the contrary, the first method was somewhat closer from a chain of home-made visualization techniques. Loci help to store this chain by embedding it in successive places.

## Few side notes

As a side note, there is a continuum between these two opposite methods, depending on your goal, you can set the level of deepness of your mental images and mixing your own mental vizualisations with books passage. Many options are possible with memory techniques, what I presented is only a small subset of the strategies available to associate "stuff" and loci together. Loci can be taken out of the various places you encountered in your life but can also be taken out virtual worlds such as video game or even your own imagination (which is equally funny and challenging). If you want to learn more about memory techniques, the [forum](http://mt.artofmemory.com/) and the [wiki](http://mt.artofmemory.com/wiki/Main_Page) of artsofmemory.com are excellent place to start. Finally, there have been some propositions in the memory community concerning how to memorize text verbatim. I do not personally feel they represent compelling approaches. But if this is something you want to explore, a [quick search](http://mt.artofmemory.com/search/node/verbatim) on the forum I mentioned may help you. 