# Stoicism journal
Starting a diary mixing thoughts, interrogations and progress on the path of a philosophy of life.
## 11/10/2015
### current readings
Finished to read the book of Irvine, and discovered I read it during the stoic week (funny isnt it ?). I appreciated it a lot, from many facets (practical, personnal, non scholar, still a bit scholar to patch things up at the end). I don't see how it could have been better. But despite the 40 first letters of Seneca (to Lucilius) I don't know much else about stoicism. 
 
### angry for that ?
I discovered I was too often angry (even during a very brief moment) against participants in philosophical podcasts I listened. I routinely comment out loud. I have various hypothesis on why that should be investigated futher. In the meantime, I decided to stop listening for today.

### Massimo
I found out that Massimo from rationnaly speaking (a podcast I like a lot, but I miss Massimo departure even if Julia is doing a really good job) went very active on stoicism. I guess, by talking about the subject in the pdcast, he played a role in my recent interest to stoicism, as well as my (lets say 1-third) mini life crisis. He seems well aware on recent authors and blog on the subject.

### read or not read ?   
At this point I am wondering if reading too much about stoicism is not a slippery slope of the scholar I am. I have been in contact in already much material with the book of Irvine. As a good stoic should better start practicing than read. I feel that I would like to be an expert of the subject. Maybe to feel the goodness of being an expert. Here is then my first exercice. An analytical sight on this makes me think that there are maybe bad values behind this goal like fame or social status. My time is limited so I should focus on the essential. Reading interesting stuff can give me some pleasure. I guess I should look more into stoic litterature later, for the joy of learning and to bring some new lights on my stoic path. 

### unclear vizualisations
I tried a bit negative visualisation. It's way too early to draw some conclusions. It's still unclear what I should visualise. For example, what about visualising loosing my significant other. This is a big one. What should I consider ? My life without her ? The day I lose her ? My grief ? All of them ? Maybe all of them. Or maybe not the grief, as it's not the mental state that counts but the situation itself to avoid part of the violence of this possible future mental state. It seems that the goal to prepare myself to such events and the appreciation of current thing (my s.o) appeals to different visualisations. Or it is ? It seems that I should avoid to plan stuff. It seems like I go down the path of "what-if scenario" and find a way to solve my problems by thinking ahead. This what it's often understood when talking about preparing to an event (like travel) but it's not really this kind of preparation targeted. Or is it at least a bit ? If there is no plan if a terrible event appears, I guess it's a problem. I am not sure whether it's the way to go. Maybe some reading on negative viz. would be helpful to better seize what to visualize to achieve which goals. From the blog of Massimo (https://howtobeastoic.wordpress.com) I got this links http://blogs.exeter.ac.uk/stoicismtoday/2013/11/24/audio-recordings-for-stoic-week-2014/ I will put them on my mp3 player and see if it helps.

### jealousy
One of the podcaster published 4 books and is around 30 years old. I feel a small feeling of jaleousy. This must be investigated further. One way is to understand why I feel jealous whereas I don't even know if she is happy in her condition of writer. Any stoic would say me among other things to focus on the representation of my own life. Jealousy won't give me more strength or more hapiness. If one day it's time to write books, then I shall write books. But is it my goal now ? Not at all. Keep it quiet jealousy and listen what the girl says. 

### confort
Interestingly I keep an eye on my physical confort. Like how and where I sit. This is stupid but I might have underestimated this aspect in my life. Not sure it's a stoic goal to seek confort. Nevertheless I feel ok with considering this.

### order
I feel I want to make order in my life. Physically I have an unusal will to fix some problems and order files on my physical and computer desk. I have not done much but felt a subtle difference. This can be the result of other factors than previous readings like return from holidays.

### uncalmness and learning
I feel happy that I know about many things : go&chess, academic research, my two researchs fields, statistics, programmation, learning methods, a tiny bit of philosophy, mindmapping. Sometimes I feel drown by the implications of this diversity, each subject call me for actions that I would like to take. But I can't take them all. From a stoic point of view, did my freedom and my calm increases or have been diminished. My calm has not been improved by this plurality. Or should have been ? Indeed my freedom "objective" has improved (I can do more things), but my "stoic fredom" is serverly damaged as I can sometimes feel enslaved to these subject of interest. I feel terrified at the idea of turning the back of some of them. But something not far from it will happen. This plurality has many implications. It might inflate my ego, provoke extasy. Sometimes it provoqued dark moods : all of that to achieve what ? Does learning in a stoic perspective should be minimal ? Or can it be more exhaustive ? In this case how to not feel enslaved by these learning materials. Learning and doing can be separated ? Can I learn only for the pleasure, with no idea of applying this new knowledge ? If yes, what is the point of learning ? I see then two possibilities to find stoic calm on this subject. Learn less or learn to bound learning into a controlled state. This problem is very close frome one of another major one, my two many projects problem. Too much learning might be a cause. This need serious prolongated investigations.

## 12/10/2015

### Honesty
It seems that I am more inclined to be honest with the motives I give to people to explain why I can do what I am supposed to do or why I did not these tasks. My last mail might have been more honest than with my routine state of mind. Just an impression. Maybe it's this journal which makes me practice honesty.

### Negative visualisation about hard past event
This morning, I thought on one of my most penible emotionnal experience and rethink how I would have respond from a Sq perspective. This was kind of smooth. No idea if this visualization has an effect but I kind of felt good after it. Like I repaired the past. Imagination and souvenirs, I don't feel that they differ greatly from a cognitive perspective. What if I replace this hard time with a nice come-back and not the emotional whole I dig up at that time. Should it have effect to better deal with novel situations ? Or should it have effect to chase away the pain of this moment ?

### Night visualisations
I listened this morning and yesterday evening the mp3 files. Interesting to say the least that the root of some meditation exercices come from pythagoras. Also interesting that he used mental review also to better enhance memory. Here is then the guy who first wrote about mental review and free recall (one of my favourite learning techniques). Returning to stoic. I failed to review my day completely. Lack of time, consumed partly by listening the mp3. Got sleepy to early. I should try later. Quite the same for the morning exercice. I will have better occasions.

### ColdTurkey
I finally chose to install a website blocker on my new computer. The goal is to extenguish the 9gag/facebook reflex. During my last periode of work on my old cpu, this worked well. But somehow old routines started to show up again. I should give a try again. The dependance of these tools should be thought. From a complete stoic view, I should be able to avoid their use. 

### Analytical perspective
Irvine wrote that he picked stoicism instead of Zen Buddhism because getting an empty mind does not suit its analytical mind. I think I am an analytical personn too. Stoicism, in a way, insists for more analytical and gives tool to do it properly. 

### emotion and analysis
One of my most important doubt is on the benefical aspect of emotion. This is not my field of research but I know some people defending its role in cognitive responses such as learning and problem solving. Stoics did not have access to this body of knowledge. Intuitively I would think that emotion can impair or enhance reasonning abilities. The emotionnal rush provides a lot. One way to think of this emtional rush is just a big energy/motivationnal intake. Maybe this can be simulated or reproduced inside a calm mind if the situation requires this input. Maybe. Maybe stoics would say that even if there are some good aspects in emotional storms, the cost in freedom and tranquility is too high. Goal achieving is less desirable than tranquility loss. 

### emotions, goals, zarathoustra
When I felt an emotional distress. I saw this basic pattern. VeryBad(pbm)->VeryGood(energy rush)->Calm or depressed(pbm solved, empty sensations). Interstingly a bigger scheme (2 months intensive work) this is this empty feeling which caused me to investigate if philosophy can help me to find myself again. A stoic would straighten this emotional curb. My other Nietzschean self do not fully agree. Nietzsche did not really write about a life philosophy. But if I had, I think it would put the goal of creation (in a pure sense, kinda discruptive) above all else. There is an age where I was fully convinced. I was also delected (yes, delected) by agressive comments on stoicism (beyond good and evil and Zarathoustra) Now I am between two rivers. Creation can make yourself the puppet launched in the storm of world. Zarathoustra is an intersting personnage. When I think about it, it seems really stoic even if his journey was hard. Almost purely stoic. Or did he ? He was a bit like Nietzsche, sometimes launching aggressive piques and felt a bit of sadness, but was never felt demolished or in an uncontrolled anger. He felt emotions but was not enslaved to it. He was, on the other hand, fully determined to share his doctrine. Is there a possibility for a stoicism focused on shielding the soul like one guerrier is shielded and not like a fort is protected ? Thinking about it, Zarathoustra can't *not* sharing some stoic attributes. If a divine personnage has a Divine Goal, every piece of mind is tailored to achieve this goal. Efficiency is then found. This efficiency implies discarding much of useless feelings, useless desires, working with information and not with emotion. Like a machine. What is the mental state of this divine personnage ? Maybe it's not far from the tranquility of stoics. Maybe it's more "this is my duty" calmness than a "nothing can hurt me" calmness.

### present moment
I am wondering what is the stoic nature the attention of the present moment that I heard Massimo talking about in the r.speaking podcast. Is it a way to be more analytical or more present ? This seems to be two different perspectives. Massimo described that he stopped listening podcast during gym. From Irvine perspective it would be to more feel the pain, ponder the disconfort. But I am not sure if it was he meant. Maybe it is. Anyway. SHould I be more present to be more analytical or to enjoy like the power of now (new spirituality litterature). Joy and Calm seems decupled when being aware of it. We can also take pleasure of more subtle and simple things around us. This can be then inline with stc doctrine. But there are other reasons to be attentive, like to keep in mind that all things are pershable (negative viz etc..), or to investigate our current state of mind (calm, anger, sadness ? why ? how ?).

### paradox of writing this diary
At this time, I feel good. I think a lot, practise honesty with myself. Asking me open questions without fill or jumping the gap in a hurry. But, in some sense, I feel enslave. This is similar to other greedy projects of mine, interrupting my serious business because I can't avoid thought on it. Should this diary the only exception ? Good question, as it provides me the tool to fight this ADHD-like of mine. But it kind of sounds like I go to anonymous alcoholic being *not* sober. Let's accept this state of exception of this diary for the moment. This might be only the first kiss with a new lover. Getting his mind occupied to it is acceptable for the first dates. I should keep in mind that this diary must be wrote in a calm spirit not an excited one to avoid soiling its soul.

### intellectual stimulation
Since very young I looked for intellectual stimulation, more throughfully than my peers I think. "intellectual" goes well with stoicism, "stimulation" less likely. Stimulation is like heat source for a frozen body. Without stimulation, common sense portrait you as a zoombie. I might need to avoid this dissociation. The normal state should not be boredom waiting merriment. The contentment must be there from the departure.

### Ex s.o success.
I lost my calm thinking about the success of my first love. I hate having these negative feelings and would have prefer feel good about my ex. This is really a matter of comparison with my own success. This is SO NOT stoic for many reasons. Success is not a goal in itself. Jealousy is a sad passion. This feeling is also ill-grounded (I want to be better than my ex)
It does not deal with my life. Also, as epictetus said (if I remember well Irvine) only my judgement causes me pain. So, it's wrong on so many regards, and oppositely it provides me strong emotional responses. This is a case to meditate. When thought experiences on this matter would not affect my tranquility, I could say that an important milestone would have been reached. 

### scope of transfert
Or maybe not. Is it an interesting exercice to mentally work on difficult case to overcome them ? What is the scope of the transfert I can hope ? Is there a global trait that I beef up during this exercice, or is it a bunch of small defaults that need to be corrected. My assumption saying that it's an important milestone seems to rely on the "global trait" or "few global traits" hypothesis. 

### duties, task and procrastination
It seems that if one has a goal to live a good life, the duties (in broad sense) are welcomed. They are related to very simple decision process. "If I want to avoid troubles I have to this asap". Thus, stupid procrastination should not exist as they are the most easiest material from a stoic game. The stoic game consists to play life with the goal to achieve the maximum of epictetus points in a day (like the points that he would give to you). Playing this game, it sounds like, after morning meditation, the lowest hanging fruit are the little dumb things that you have to do. Or does it ? Maybe there are superior actions than solving our mondaine problems from epictetus perspective. But at least it should grant more points than most everyday routine actions. I use the term duties with an idea behind my mind. When you have no other choice to do sthg, a task becomes a duty. It deprives you from the freedom to chose wether or not this task must be done. Maybe this is what a compulsive procrastinator wait....that his tasks are turned into duties. Another possibility, then, is to adopt a strict philosophy of life. Tasks are then also turned into duties. Is there a paradox to abandonn freedom within a philosophy that tries to elevate it ? This idea (stoicism to maximise freedom) is not in my readings but in a podcast I listened, I dont know how relevant it is. Nevertheless, turning something into a duty do a good job to alleviate the mental burden associated with the task. Maybe this is why M. Aurellus wrote about social duties. Maybe it's indending to find a framework to work in the stoically awfull world of social behavior in a calm manner.

### pick stoic friendly goals by experiences of thought
Fame and money should not be my primary interest. It was not until I discovered what was money and fame. At a very little level of course. But it seems my soul was more pure 10-15 years ago. Younger, I remember well, I pictured myself living in a poor little appartment and got no problem with that. Now it's a little be different and I need to come back to alleviate these desires from my mind. I am quite conviced that I have to. I also suffer from multiple goals. Now, after my readings, I think I have to picture my life working towards each of this goal but getting from them minimal money (say 1000$ month) and being unknown (or even socially misjudged ?). Considering this, which goal should I pick from these ones ? though experiments to do. I feel that start up projects goes down the list and an activity centered on helping people or having creative day-to-day work go up on my list. This is unexpected. I shall continue pondering it later.

### anxiety today
I felt anxious about stupid things today (like a not-liked facebook post, this is hard to admit but this is the place to admit it). Maybe more than usual. This is not a promise of stoicism. It can be explained by many things other than the start of my stoic journey. But it could also be related. By being more analytical, I tend to overthink stupid things. This reminds me Seneca who gave its mixed feelings about isolation citing another philosopher "take care to not be with a bad personn" adressed to someone who claimed to want to spend time with himself. This sound a realistic side effect that without a stronger stoic mind, thinking more can be harmful. It's like going to war naked with a toy-sword. Then, how to be better armed before launching fights. Maybe more meditation exercices, negative vizualisation and less (or no) during-day analysis for the moment is a counter measure if I think that the problem is real.

## 13/10/2015

### lack of sleep
These thoughts today : "much of my lack of energy and bad mood may be due to my lack of sleep, I should fix it instead of fixing my state of mind". Then I realized that this may be seen in another way. On an Sq perspective, I should be able to deal with the lack of sleep. Stoicism relies partly on virtual/real training. Being able to stand lack of sleep is an opportunity honorable goal. Sleeping enough is not sthg I can totally control, then I should protect myself against this.



